Inverse wave problems are difficult because ill-posedness,
A PINN constrains a neural approximation by placing the wave-equation
Spacetime RBFs provide the meshless geometric representation used by
Wave speed material properties or source location designated as
Distance r i from every target point to every source point in the
Simplified MQ, IMQ, or Gaussian values phi(r i) for every source point
A source-point-width feature vector supplied to the multilayer
MLP output-layer solution approximation
Data-loss term L data
Mean-squared residual loss L physics
Objective Loss lambda R Ldata + lambda P Lphysics
Simplified IMQ basis retained for subsequent analyses
A retained boundary-point quantity of 1002
A retained RBF source-point quantity of 69
Selected hyperparameter configuration used in subsequent inverse
Network fitted to data and wave-equation constraints
Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm selected for the proposed network
Sigmoid activation selected for the forward and inverse wave networks
Optimal weight parameters at the stated loss convergence criterion
Reconstructed past wave fields for the four synthetic cases
Case A RMSE, MRE, and MAE comparison showing lower reported errors for
Four without-noise RMSE values for Cases A-D
Without-noise MRE values 2.10 × 10−3, 6.70 × 10−3, 1.67 × 10−1, and
Without-noise MAE values 1.41 × 10−5, 3.52 × 10−5, 1.40 × 10−3, and
For the tested synthetic inverse cases, the optimized spacetime IMQ